https://medium.com/elfsight-blog/how-to-run-a-b-testing-a-checklist-youll-want-to-bookmark-99c75aa9860b
How to Do A/B Testing: A Checklist You’ll Want to Bookmark

Here’s a couple of goals that you could try to achieve:
Decrease the bounce rate
Increase the average time spent on page
Convert blog readers into customers or subscribers
Convert social media followers into customers
Decrease cart abandonment rate
Reduce page loading time
Improve your landing pages performance

A/B Testing vs Multivariate Testing
A/B testing and multivariate testing (MVT) are not the same thing.
When doing an A/B test, you compare several variations of a single element at a time and pick out the best. A/B tests can be performed 
at different levels — you can test different colors of the CTA button or two different landing pages. These tests deliver reliable data 
very quickly, as they do not require a large amount of traffic to run. A/B testing is best used to measure the impact of 2–4 variables 
on interactions with the page.
During the multivariate testing, you test many variables simultaneously.
MVT combines several A/B tests conducted at the same time. It compares a higher number of variables and reveals more information 
about how these variables interact with one another. The purpose of an MVT is to measure the effectiveness of multiple variables 
combinations.

Essential Tips for Effective A/B Testing
Before you start testing, consider the following tips.
(1) Test One Asset At a Time
Let’s say that your ad is not performing well. To learn why you need to do A/B tests —was it the wrong audience, the visual, 
the ad’s text or maybe all of them? If you conduct multivariate testing, you won’t be able to recognize the issue — too many 
factors will muddle your results. The only solution here is to A/B test each element separately.
(2) Test Minor Changes
When it comes to ads and websites, changes to small things often bring big improvements. The positioning of the lead-capture forms, 
the color of the CTA button — every little thing matters. Consider testing email forms, colors, fonts, designs of CTA buttons as 
variables — you will be amazed by the results!
“Experimentation is the engine that drives innovation. Experiments show us, with scientific rigor, what works and what doesn’t work“ 
— Prof. Stefan Thomke, Harvard Business School
(3) Conduct High-Level Testing
Let’s say you decided to rebuild one of the landing pages from scratch. You’ve got two landing pages at hand and you want to learn 
if the new one performs better. Testing large elements against each other is a high-level approach to the A/B testing. If you test 
the same page with several changes applied you won’t be able to recognize which work out better or draw any other conclusions.
(4) Mind the Metrics
While A/B testing, you need to pay attention to how it affects the sales metrics such as visits, leads, click-through rates, 
traffic-to-lead conversion rates, demo requests and more. It is possible that a landing page that converted fewer prospects 
produced more sales.
(5) Decide What to Test
Break up your webpages, marketing materials, ads into elements that might affect the conversions — CTAs, email forms, design, 
wording, layouts, etc — and run A/B tests on them. Mind other factors like different target audiences, the timing of promotions, etc.
(6) Create Equal Conditions
To get statistically significant results, you need to create equal testing conditions — equal audience groups, identical timing, etc. 
If run on the different time of the day or months, A/B tests are most likely to be influenced by these factors.

A/B Testing Examples
You may feel the need to improve your landing pages and other marketing-related elements, but you might feel overwhelmed by the 
number of possible variables to test. Not all of them influence your sales figures so you need to focus on those that matter. 
Most often these include landing pages, emails, CTAs, and ads.

Landing Page Split Testing
Landing pages contain several elements that are subject to testing.
(1) Offers. Learn which offerings help you push leads down the sales funnel and have the most conversion — sales, demos, ebooks, 
webinars, coupons, etc.
(2) Texts. Make sure that your offer descriptions are convincing, easy-to-grasp, and have all questions covered.
(3) Form fields. Request email address only or ask for more information? On one hand, form fields help you qualify leads and nurture 
them. But some marketers say that the more fields there are in your form, the lower your visitor-to-customer conversion rate is going 
to be.
(4) Whole page. A/B testing of the entire landing pages is the fastest way to learn which ones drive more conversions. 
After that, it’s reasonable to test low-level elements such as forms, CTAs and more.



